Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture I'd like to have a quick look at memory now do forgive me.
Because we are going to have to gloss over quite a bit.
However just to give you a base understanding that we can improve on in time and then you will start
to understand why things are done in a certain way.
When we get to talking about the stack in the heap those sorts of things will start to become much more
clear.
So in this lecture we're going to talk about some primitive types here on a typical machine that you're
likely to work on.
So we'll start within 32 now in 32 will be a 32 bit integer whatever type of machine it's on and we'll
take up the equivalent of four points of memory.
Now this is because 32 bits Well there are eight bits in one byte therefore four bytes.
Now memory itself has to be addressed.
One bytes at a time which is why with a boolean even though it only takes up one bit it actually takes
up a whole bytes of memory.
Now there are some more advanced things you can do later on to store multiple balls in there but that's
a bit more advanced than this course is going to get into the next one.
Again something we've already played with is a character and a character is 1 bytes per character in
general.
Now when you make characters into a string and there are multiple ways that you can do that been the
way that we've learnt so far we basically have a string that is a series of characters with a null terminator
at the end.
So if you have the word high that would be H I and the null terminator so it would be three bytes in
total.
And when you create a string like that it needs continuous memory space to do it.
You can't dot it all over the place and that will become a little clearer when we look at a table in
a few moments a floats.
Now we haven't done floats yet.
Now they are a way of representing scientific notation decimal places.
A floats will be 32 bits and therefore again taking up four bytes of memory Okay so let's have a look
at examples here.
So we have memory example.
This whole table here represents bytes of memory and we can see here it counts up from zero and then
it doesn't get to 10.
It goes zero a zero b c the E F this is called hexadecimal counting its base 16 and it's very useful
and that's how memory addresses are typically displayed.
You've probably had a blue screen of death in the past which has a memory address in it.
Now here we see one F..
That's what this area down at the bottom right represents.
So this is an example of that bottom right area.
Okay.
So what do we have in our first four bytes of memory.
Well we have an integer the number eight but it isn't quite as simple as that what we're using here
is something called a little Indian or little Indian ness and it's a way of representing the contents
of memory if it was little Indian it would be with the eights at the other end and it would fill up
this way instead of going the other way.
Now I think it's just easier to read this way and I've linked an article in the resources so you can
read a bit more about Indian this it won't really matter in this course but it's something that you
might want to look at in more depth then we've got a boolean here is taking out one bytes of memory
and it's set to TRUE AND THEN WE GOT ANOTHER integer down here.
Mm hmm.
I wonder what that is.
Now I'm not gonna tell you what that is right now because that's gonna be a bonus question in our challenge.
So looking at this table in front of us here what I'd like you to do is decide where would we put our
string cakes.
Where could we fit it in.
Remember that strings require a continuous space of memory.
And for our bonus question What is this integer.
Remember this is big Indian.
So we're mainly focused on these two here.
Pause video now and give us a go
Okay everybody Welcome back.
So where do we put the word cakes.
Now some of you may have thought C A K E S.
Unfortunately we don't have any space for on null terminator.
Others might have put it here where 14 is or somewhere else.
Now typically the memory would be filled up from where there is a continuous space that it would fit.
So here we have CSKA s and our null terminator remembering it taking up 6 bytes of memory because of
that null terminator.
Okay so what about this number here.
Well the answer's kind of in front of you anyway with this table.
So if we count from zero and we get to zero f here and then go over to ten and ten represents sixteen.
Well when we get to 1 F and go to 20 we're talking about 32.
So this here is the integer 32.
How many if you go that please share whether you got that over in the discussions and I'll see you all
in the next lecture.